Update Security Considerations and IANA Section (#3)
scionassociation/scion-cp_I-D: draft-dekater-scion-controlplane.md

As described previously, the goal of SCION’s beaconing process is to discover paths between any two ASes and make them available to other ASes. This section examines several possible approaches to manipulating the beaconing process in the SCION control plane, and shows for each case to what extent SCION's design can prevent the corresponding attack or help to mitigate it.

- Path hijacking through interposition (see [](#path-hijack))
- Creation of spurious ASes (see [](#fake-ases))
- Peering link misuse (see [](#peer-link-misuse))
- Manipulation of the path selection process (see [](#manipulate-selection))

**Note:** This section only discusses SCION control plane- and routing-specific security considerations. For security considerations related to the SCION control-plane PKI, see {{I-D.scion-cppki}}. {{I-D.scion-dp}} includes security considerations that concern the SCION data plane and data forwarding.

## Path Hijacking through Interposition {#path-hijack}

> To attract traffic and to include its own AS in segments and paths, an adversary might try to manipulate the beaconing process. There are several imaginable options for a malicious AS M to do this:

Reviewer: What's "AS M" in "for a malicious AS M"? Oh, I get it. It's a name for the hypothetical AS that is malicious. The phrasing doesn't make it too obvious.

I would suggest a few things:
* In security circles, the good guys trying to communicate are typically called A (for Alice), and B (for Bob), while the villain is C (for Charlie).
* May be start with. In what follows, we postulate two legitimate ASes, A (operated by Alice) and B (operated by Bob), and a malicious AS C, operated by Charlie.

That might make it easier to describe motivations and methods.

Author: @jiceatscion, thank you for your suggestion!
I have removed the M for malicious, and also rephrased the text a bit. Hope it is more clear now.

- By blocking the traffic between A and B, and thus force traffic redirection through M.

> - By intercepting and disseminating a PCB on its way from AS A to neighbor AS B, and injecting its (AS M's) own hop fields into the PCB toward downstream ASes. The goal is to offer AS B an attractive up-segment that traverses AS M to the core.

Author: @matzf: thanks for the correction/feedback!
Regarding "attractive": I have replaced it with "alternative".

- By modifying the hop fields of an already existing path, in order to interpose the own AS in the path.

> The first attack is fundamental and generally cannot be prevented. But SCION is able to mitigate the other two attacks: The second attack is detectable by downstream ASes, because a PCB disseminated by AS A towards AS B contains an identifier for the egress interface from AS A to AS B, protected by A's signature. This will cause verification of the manipulated inbound PCBs to fail, as the adversary's PCBs cannot contain A's correct signature. The third attack is made impossible by the hop field's MAC, which protects the hop field's integrity and chains it with the previous hop fields on the path.

Reviewer: I think the first attack might deserve a little more explanation:
* How could charlie block the Alice-Bob connection?
* Why would the traffic be re-directed to Charlie, without Charlie being already in a privileged position?
* Why is it that we can't prevent it?
I personally do not have the answers.

Author: @jiceatscion, I think you have a fair point. But unfortunately, I also have no answers. I took it from the SCION book, and given the fact that there was no explanation there, I thought it was obvious for all people with an IT background...

Reviewer 2: This is coming from section 7.4.1 Path Hijacking through Interposition. These attacks requires the adversary to be on-path (which is a very strong assumption).  I clarified this in the text and reworded. Also the last attach could not be prevented, but the different path would be immediately visible to endpoints.

> The first attack is fundamental and generally cannot be prevented. But SCION is able to mitigate the other two attacks: The second attack is detectable by downstream ASes, because a PCB disseminated by AS A towards AS B contains an identifier for the egress interface from AS A to AS B, protected by A's signature. This will cause verification of the manipulated inbound PCBs to fail, as the adversary's PCBs cannot contain A's correct signature. The third attack is made impossible by the hop field's MAC, which protects the hop field's integrity and chains it with the previous hop fields on the path.

Author: @matzf: good point, thanks! I have changed the text accordingly.

In SCION, path selection is used in three cases. First, an AS selects the PCBs to forward to its neighbors. Second, the AS chooses the paths it wants to register at the local control service as up-segments and at the core control service as down-segments. Third, the endpoint performs path selection from all available path segments. The following text describes attacks that aim at influencing the path-selection process in SCION.

Note that these attacks are only successful if the adversary is located within the same ISD and upstream relative to the victim AS. It is not possible to attract traffic away from the core as traffic travels upstream towards the core. Furthermore, the attack may either be discovered downstream (e.g., by seeing large numbers of paths becoming available), or during path registrations. After detection, regular ASes will be able to identify paths traversing the adversary AS and avoid these paths.

**Announcing Seemingly Desirable Path Segments** <br>

> An adversary who wants to attract traffic from its customers can forward PCBs received from its providers to its customers enriched with metadata. Although this metadata is signed and thus attributable to the adversary, the recipient cannot directly verify the accuracy of the data itself. Therefore, the adversary can add fake metadata that makes the PCB seem desirable. If such an adversary-announced path complies with the policy of the customer ASes, the corresponding PCB may be added as one of the paths available to the endpoint. At this point, the endpoint may select such a path traversing the adversary for communication.

Reviewer: In what follows, I think that by "customer" you mean "consumer [of BCPs]" right? "Customer" is confusing; it implies a commercial relationship, which doesn't seem to apply here. Or does it?

Author: @jiceatscion, thanks. I have removed "customer" everywhere and replaced it with downstream ASes.

Reviewer 2: Metadata is generally contained in PCB extensions. Such extensions that express path properties are not described in this draft, as far as I know they are also not widely used in productive implementations. 
I'll therefore remove this section, as I feel it does not apply to the content of the draft.

# Security Considerations

As described previously, the goal of SCION’s beaconing process in the control plane is to discover paths between any two ASes and make them available to other ASes. This section describes the possible security risks and attacks that SCION's control plane may be prone to, and how these may be mitigated. The focus lies on *inter*-AS routing: SCION does not solve intra-AS routing issues, nor does it provide end-to-end payload encryption, and identity authentication. These topics lie therefore outside the scope of this section.

**Note:** This section only discusses SCION control plane- and routing-specific security considerations. For security considerations related to the SCION control-plane PKI, see {{I-D.scion-cppki}}. {{I-D.scion-dp}} includes security considerations that concern the SCION data plane and data forwarding.

> This section focuses on three kinds of security risks in the control plane. The first risk is when an adversarial entity (e.g., a government) controls one or all core ASes of an ISD and tries to frustrate the beaconing process from the top down (see [](#topdown-frust)). Also "ordinary" (non-core) adversaries that try to manipulate the beaconing process pose a risk to the control plane (see [](#manipulate-beaconing)). The third kind of security risks are Denial of Services (DoS) attacks, where attackers overload different parts of the IT infrastructure (see [](#dos-cp)).

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure 'frustrate' is the right term here, but I need to understand the context better.

SCION offers protection against volumetric DoS attacks, which aim to exhaust network bandwidth on links; in this case, ASes can switch to alternative paths that do not contain the congested links. However, it may be more difficult to avoid transport protocol attacks, where the attacker tries to exhaust the resources on a target server, such as a control service server, by opening many connections to this server. Possible means to mitigate this kind of DoS attacks are basically the same as for the current Internet, e.g., geo-blocking or using cookies.

# IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

The ISD and SCION AS number are SCION-specific numbers. They are currently allocated by Anapaya Systems, a provider of SCION-based networking software and solutions (see [Anapaya ISD AS assignments](https://docs.anapaya.net/en/latest/resources/isd-as-assignments/)). This task is currently being transitioned from Anapaya to the SCION Association.

--- back

# Acknowledgments
{:numbered="false"}

> Many thanks go to William Boye (Swiss National Bank), Matthias Frei (SCION Association), Juan A. Garcia Prado (ETH Zurich), and Roger Lapuh (Extreme Networks) for reviewing this document. We are also very grateful to Adrian Perrig (ETH Zurich), for providing guidance and feedback about each aspect of SCION. Finally, we are indebted to the SCION development teams of Anapaya and ETH Zurich, for their practical knowledge and for the documentation about the SCION Control Plane, as well as to the authors of [CHUAT22] - the book is an important source of input and inspiration for this draft.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many thanks go to William Boye (Swiss National Bank), Matthias Frei (SCION Association), Kevin Meynell (SCION Association), Juan A. Garcia Prado (ETH Zurich), and Roger Lapuh (Extreme Networks) for reviewing this document. We are also very grateful to Adrian Perrig (ETH Zurich), for providing guidance and feedback about each aspect of SCION. Finally, we are indebted to the SCION development teams of Anapaya and ETH Zurich, for their practical knowledge and for the documentation about the SCION Control Plane, as well as to the authors of [CHUAT22] - the book is an important source of input and inspiration for this draft.
```

## Denial of Service Attacks {#dos-cp}

The beaconing process in the SCION control plane relies on control-plane communication: When ASes are propagating PCBs to downstream neighbor ASes, when they are registering PCBs as path segments at the core control services, or when they are looking up path segments at their own or a neighboring ISD's core, they constantly exchange control-plane messages with other ASes. DoS attacks, where attackers overload different parts of the IT infrastructure, may make it difficult to exchange these messages.

SCION offers protection against volumetric DoS attacks, which aim to exhaust network bandwidth on links; in this case, ASes can switch to alternative paths that do not contain the congested links. However, it may be more difficult to avoid transport protocol attacks, where the attacker tries to exhaust the resources on a target server, such as a control service server, by opening many connections to this server. Possible means to mitigate this kind of DoS attacks are basically the same as for the current Internet, e.g., geo-blocking or using cookies.

# IANA Considerations

> SCION is an inter-domain routing architecture, which bases its inter-domain routing on the <ISD, AS> tuple. For more details, see [](#numbering).
> 
> The ISD-AS number is a SCION-specific number. It consists of 64-bits, where the top 16 bits represent the 16-bit global identifier for the ISD, and the bottom 48 bits indicate the AS. Currently, the ISD and AS numbers are allocated by Anapaya, the Swiss-based provider of SCION-based networking software and solutions. However, in the future, the SCION Association will take care of the allocation - we are currently in the process of transferring this task from Anapaya to the Association.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document has no IANA actions.

The ISD and SCION AS number are SCION-specific numbers. They are currently allocated by Anapaya Systems, a provider of SCION-based networking software and solutions. This task is currently being transitioned  from Anapaya to the SCION Association.
```
Besides that, I'd add a reference to: https://docs.anapaya.net/en/latest/resources/isd-as-assignments 
As we (Association) take over the task, we will update this to our page.

Reviewer 2: Also, I would delete from section 1.5.1 this text: 
``` 
A suitable mechanism to globally coordinate the assignation of ISD
   numbers does not yet exist.  However, we hope that in the future an
   organization such as ICANN or a regional Internet registry (e.g.,
   RIPE NCC) will take on the responsibility of assigning ISD and AS
   numbers.
   ```
   This is because the mechanism exists and it is Anapaya.. To get to have internet registries, we need the IANA section, which needs an IETF publication... So I'd just omit this text .
   
   Also, I'd add the same reference to Anapaya's page also there.

Author: @nicorusti: Thank you for your feedback. I have changed this draft, and also the other two drafts, accordingly.
Best
Corine

Similarly to creating a fake AS, an adversary could try to introduce a new, fake ISD. This involves the generation of its own TRC, finding core ASes to peer with, and convincing other ISDs of its legitimacy. Although this setup is not entirely impossible, it requires substantial time and effort, and may need the involvement of more than one malicious entity. Here, the "costs" of setting up the fake ISD may outweigh the benefits.

### Peering Link Misuse {#peer-link-misuse}

The misuse of a peering link by an adversary represents another type of attack. Consider the case where AS A wants to share its peering link only with one of its downstream neighbors, AS B, and therefore selectively includes the peering link only in PCBs sent to B. An adversary may now try to gain access to this peering link by prepending the relevant PCBs to its own path. For this, the adversary needs to be able to (1) eavesdrop on the link from A to B, and (2) obtain the necessary hop fields by querying a control service and extracting the hop fields from registered paths.

> Even if an adversary succeeds in misusing a peering link as described above, SCION is able to mitigate this kind of attack: Each AS includes an egress interface as well as specific “next hop” information to the PCB before disseminating it further downstream. If a malicious entity tries to misuse a stolen PCB by adding it to its own segments, verification will fail upstream as the egress interface mismatches. Therefore, the peering link can only be used by the intended AS.

Reviewer 2: This seems to me just a special case of "Path Hijacking through Interposition"  described in the paragraph above. I'd leave it for now, but perhaps it could be merged to the paragraph above in the long term.

This section focuses on three kinds of security risks in the control plane. The first risk is when an adversary controls one or all core ASes of an ISD and tries to manipulate the beaconing process from the top down (see [](#topdown-manipulate)). Also "ordinary" (non-core) adversaries that try to manipulate the beaconing process pose a risk to the control plane (see [](#manipulate-beaconing)). The third kind of security risks are Denial of Services (DoS) attacks, where attackers overload different parts of the IT infrastructure (see [](#dos-cp)).

## Top-Down Manipulation of Beaconing {#topdown-manipulate}

The first kind of risk to the beaconing process in the control plane comes from an adversarial entity that controls one or all core ASes in an ISD (e.g., a government). One possible attack would be when this entity stops the core AS(es) from propagating PCBs, thus frustrating the discovery of new paths. In this case, downstream ASes will notice that PCBs are no longer being propagated, but all previously discovered (and still valid) paths are still usable for data-plane forwarding until they expire.

> Another possible attack of this adversarial entity could be to shut down the control services, by compelling core and non-core ASes to stop replying to path requests, or only return a subset of all available paths. If this attack were used in conjunction with blackholing, where traffic is redirected to a non-existent resource, senders in the ISD would have difficulty getting traffic out of the ISD. In SCION, however, existing paths can continue to be used in the data plane as long as the traversed ASes allow the forwarding.

Reviewer 2: This part about shutting down the control service of an AS is more of a kill-switch than an attack, and it requires access or control over an AS. This cannot be performed remotely. 
I'd therefore remove this paragraph
